chore(docs): re-structuring how-to-guides (#16758)
AztecProtocol/aztec-packages: docs/docs/developers/guides/js_apps/how_to_use_authwit.md

---
title: Using Authentication Witnesses
tags: [accounts, authwit]
sidebar_position: 6
description: Step-by-step guide to implementing authentication witnesses in Aztec.js for delegated transactions.
---

This guide shows you how to create and use authentication witnesses (authwits) to authorize other accounts to perform actions on your behalf.

:::warning aztec-nr

Using AuthWitnesses is always a two-part process. This guide shows how to generate and use them, but you still need to set up your contract to accept and authenticate them.

> Therefore it is very much recommended to read the `aztec-nr` [guide on authwitnesses](../smart_contracts/how_to_use_authwit.md) before this one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore it is recommended to read the `aztec-nr` [guide on authwitnesses](../smart_contracts/how_to_use_authwit.md) before this one.
```

:::

## Prerequisites

- Deployed account wallets
- Contract with authwit validation (see [smart contract authwits](../smart_contracts/how_to_use_authwit.md))
- Understanding of [authwit concepts](../../../aztec/concepts/advanced/authwit.md)

> Let's also assume functions `some_public_function` and `some_private_function` with the macro `#[authorize_once("from", "authwit_nonce")]`, meaning it will check if:

Reviewer: Seems weird that this is in the `Prerequisites` section. Move into the `AuthWits` section below

> Let's also assume functions `some_public_function` and `some_private_function` with the macro `#[authorize_once("from", "authwit_nonce")]`, meaning it will check if:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's also assume we have a contract with functions `some_public_function` and `some_private_function` with the macro `#[authorize_once("from", "authwit_nonce")]`, meaning it will check if:
```

- `from` is `msg_sender`, or
- there's an authwitness allowing `from` to call this function

## AuthWits

Regardless of its type, you'll want to define what is being delegated (let's call it "action") and the intent ("who intends to act"). For example:

```typescript
const nonce = Fr.random()

// bob creates an authwit that authorizes alice to call the function on his behalf

> const action = contract.methods.some_private_function(bob, alice, 10n, nonce)

Reviewer: It's confusing that `alice` is an arg to the function, and also the caller for the authwit. These things are not related and do not have to be. I think it might be helpful to make the 2nd arg a different address to make this more clear.

Author: They will very commonly be related, but they don't have to be. So yes I'll make it different which should illustrate it

const intent = {
    caller: alice.address, // alice "intends" to call the function on bob's behalf
    action
};
```

:::tip

> The nonce is necessary to avoid replay attacks. However, the contract is `smart` enough (pun intended) to allow bob to call the function himself by setting the nonce to `0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nonce is necessary to avoid replay attacks. However, the contract is smart enough to allow bob to call the function himself by setting the nonce to `0`.
```
Suggesting removing this just because it seems more professional without it, which is currently specified in the docs CLAUDE.md file

Author: Bah couldn't resist a pun here haha

:::

## Create private authwits

Private AuthWits mean that some action is authorized in private. No specific transaction is made, the authorization is just sent as part of the actual transaction:

```typescript
const authWit = await wallet.createAuthWit(bob.address, intent);
```

Now alice can call the function by providing the authwit:

```typescript
await action.send({ from: alice.address, authWitnesses: [authWit] }).wait();
```

## Create public authwits

> Public authwits mean the authorization is public, so it is its own transaction. You create the authwit just as above, but the wallet needs to make this action authorized in the canonical `AuthRegistry` contract:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Public authwits mean the authorization is public, so it requires a transaction. You create the authwit just as above, but the wallet needs to authorize it in the canonical `AuthRegistry` contract:
```

```typescript
// "true" is specific here... because you may want to revoke it later!
const authwit = await wallet.setPublicAuthWit(bob.address, intent, true);
await authwit.send({ from: bob.address }).wait()
```

Now that everyone knows about the public authorization, alice can call the function normally:

```typescript
await action.send({ from: alice.address }).wait()
```

## Create arbitrary message authwits

> ### Step 1: Create inner hash

Reviewer: What is an example of a use case for this? It'd be helpful for helping with understanding how to use it.

Author: That's an amazing question you're making, considering the fact that I also don't have the slightest idea about the answer.

Just kept it from the original guide so I suggest leaving it and coming back later if it's not relevant to keep documenting

You can use `computeInnerAuthWitHash` to get yourself a hash of arbitrary hash you can use in an authwit:

```typescript
import { computeInnerAuthWitHash, computeAuthWitMessageHash } from "@aztec/aztec.js";

// Create hash of arbitrary data
const innerHash = computeInnerAuthWitHash([
    field1,
    field2,
    field3
]);

// Create full authwit message hash
const messageHash = computeAuthWitMessageHash(
    executorAddress,
    chainId,
    version,
    innerHash
);
```

## Revoke public authwits

Because public authwits are... well, public, that means you should be able to revoke them. Just set the last parameter to `false` and send the transaction:

```typescript
// Set authorized to false to revoke
const revoked = await authorizerWallet.setPublicAuthWit({
    caller: executorAddress,
    action: action

> }, false);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}, false).send({ from: account.address });
```
need to send it to the network
